The server name portion of a URL is also called the domain name. By studying a domain name, you learn about the server hosting the website. Each domain name contains a hierarchy of names separated by periods (.), with the top level appearing at the far right end. The top level, called an extension, indicates the general audience supported by the web server. For example, _.edu_ is the extension reserved for educational institutions, _.gov_ is used for agencies of the United States government, and _.com_ is used for commercial sites or general-use sites.

The next lower level appearing to the immediate left of the extension displays the name of the individual or organization hosting the site. The domain name _curbsidethai.com_ indicates a commercial or general-use site owned by Curbside Thai. To avoid duplicating domain names, the top two levels of the domain must be registered with the [[Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA]]) before they can be used. You can usually register your domain name through your web hosting company. Note: You must pay an annual fee to keep a domain name.

The lowest levels of the domain, which appear farthest to the left in the domain name, are assigned by the individual or company hosting the site. Large websites involving hundreds of pages typically divide their domain names into several levels. For example, a large company like Microsoft might have one domain name for file downloads—_downloads.microsoft.com_—and another domain name for customer service—_service.microsoft.com_. Finally, the first part of the domain name displays the name of the hard drive or resource storing the website files. Many companies have standardized on www as the initial part of their domain names.